CrateDB excels at storing,
analysing, and tracking the
location of people and objects
in real time.
Whether you're managing a fleet
of vehicles, offering customers
information about services near
their location, or analysing
historical traffic patterns,
CrateDB's geospatial data types
and functions have you covered.
We'll begin by learning how to
store different types of
geospatial data in CrateDB and
move on to explore different
types of geosearch query.
The GEO_POINT data type is used
to store latitude and longitude
coordinates.
In common with other data types
in CrateDB, GEO_POINTs can be
used to define a column in a
table or the field in an object
type column.
Here we're looking at an excerpt
of the CREATE TABLE command that
creates the table for the 311
calls in our Chicago data set.
Inside the locationdetails
object.
The location column stores the
latitude and longitude from
which the issue described in the
call was reported.
This is a fragment of an INSERT
statement to add a new 311 call
record.
When specifying the location
details, we can either provide
an array containing the
longitude and latitude values
separated by a comma as shown
here, or we can provide these
details in the WKT or Well Known
Text format.
This is what a GEO_POINT field
looks like when returned from a
SELECT query.
Now we've stored some GEO_POINT
data, let's study some basic
queries using this data type.
The distance function returns
the distance in meters between
two GEO_POINTs.
Here we have a query that
calculates the distance between
the location of a specific
street light that has been
reported as not working and the
location of the maintenance
depot responsible for fixing it.
We can see that CrateDB has
calculated that these two points
are about 4.3 kilometers apart
and we can see that mapping
software agrees with this
assessment.
We can of course use the
distance function as a filter
when querying data.
This query finds all open street
light out reports within 2
kilometers of the depot
returning the service request
number and address.
The second geospatial data type
supported by CrateDB is the
GEO_SHAPE.
A GEO_SHAPE column can store 2
dimensional shapes represented
as either GeoJSON objects or in
WKT format.
CrateDB's GEO_SHAPE supports a
range of shapes from a simple
point or a line string with
complex polygons and even multi
polygons for non contiguous
areas, and even a geometry
collection, a set of shapes
containing any of the other
types.
Here I'm using an online tool to
visualise the GeoJSON
representation of Kenwood, one
of the Chicago community areas
in our data set.
Each community area is
represented as a MultiPolygon.
This format enables us to model
complex shapes such as the
lakeside edge of this community
area.
We'll see how to perform queries
over this sort of data later in
the video.
When defining a GEO_SHAPE
column, you can choose how
CrateDB indexes the shapes.
This allows you to control the
size of the index needed for
your GEO_SHAPEs and the accuracy
that they're stored with.
In this example, take our
Chicago Community Areas data set.
We're using the geohash index
with one meter accuracy.
Other options for indexing
include a Quad-tree or a BKD-
tree index.
Refer to the CrateDB GEO_SHAPE
documentation to understand the
benefits and trade-offs of each
of the available indexing
options.
GEO_SHAPE values are inserted
using either the GeoJSON
geometry object representation
as shown here, or using the WKT
representation here.
Let's look at two ways to use
GEO_SHAPE data in a query.
The within function takes 2
GEO_SHAPEs as its parameters and
returns true if the first shape
is contained within the second.
This query tells us which
community area the point
representing a cafe at 807 W
Maxwell St.
is part of.
We'll use WKT for this query.
CrateDB tells us that this
location is part of the Near
West Side community.
We can also ask CrateDB which
communities intersect with an
area described by a given GEO_SHAPE
This query returns the names of
all communities that intersect
with the Polygon shown on the
map.
In this case, we're using
GeoJSON when specifying the
points of the Polygon in our
query.
When we run the query, we see
that the area drawn on the map
intersects with 17 of Chicago's
community areas.
Thanks to CrateDB's PostgreSQL Wire
Protocol compatibility,
it's easy to connect it to
popular dashboard and
visualization tools.
Here I'm running a simple query
from Grafana to generate a map
showing the location of all the
open street light issues
contained in our 311 call data
set.
CrateDB has excellent support
for geospatial data types.
The use of standard
representations such as GeoJSON
and WKT make it easy to import,
query, analyse and visualise
geospatial data.
The sample data set contains
geospatial data in the community
areas, 311 calls and taxi rights
tables.
Take some time to explore these
in your CrateDB cluster and
try out some geospatial queries
of your own.